The code is for an ongoing mobile air quality monitoring project, and will be updated with the progress with the project.

#  1. Background & Objectives

The McKinley Park neighborhood, a diverse and working-class community on the southwest side of Chicago, experienced a significant change in 2008 with the arrival of MAT Asphalt, the city's largest asphalt factory. Residents soon reported sulfur and ammonia-like odors emanating from the factory, adversely affecting their quality of life. In response, the community established Neighbors For Environmental Justice (N4EJ), a non-profit organization, and succeeded in deploying seven real-time particulate matter (PM) sensors throughout the area. Data revealed that PM levels near the asphalt plant were consistently higher than those in other parts of the community. However, given the presence of other PM sources, such as railyards and highways, the PM data alone cannot isolate the asphalt plant's contributions to local air pollution. Moreover, particulate matters are odorless, and asphalt plants are known to emit various other pollutants (such as SO2, volatile organic compounds including benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene, and nitrogen oxides) that contribute to the unpleasant odors. 

Therefore, we began this air monitoring project which aims **not only to trace the sources of pollutants but also to measure a range of pollutants beyond PMs**. To get a detailed look of air quality in the neighborhood, we chose a mobile monitoring (in-motion measurements by vehicle-mounted instruments) approach, which can provide higher spatial-resolution air pollution concentration data to rule out the impact of transportation and industrial emissions in neighboring communities. We have developed a mobile monitoring system using all-electric vehicle (EV) with GPS device and two air analyzers, Gasmet DX4040 FTIR Gas Analyzer and DustTrak II Aerosol Monitor 8530, which together can measure a wide range of chemicals and PMs. This R document record how we process and analysis two initial data sets we got.

